I need help for a paper in Uni for which I have to replicate results from a paper using STATA with a given, slightly modified data set to get to the same results (tables, graphs). It is one graph and the tables (regression tables Difference-in-Difference approach). I would just need a do file with the replication of results, with a short explanation of what was done in which step in the do file in a few words that's pretty much it. The approach is clearly stated in the paper. Here is the paper and the datasets. I would need Figure 2, Table 3 and Table 5 replicated.


abstract
We exploit a voting reform in France to estimate the causal effect of exit poll information
on turnout and bandwagon voting. Before the change in legislation, individuals in some
French overseas territories voted after the election result had already been made public
via exit poll information from mainland France. We estimate that knowing the exit poll
information decreases voter turnout by about 11 percentage points. Our study is the first
clean empirical design outside of the laboratory to demonstrate the effect of such
knowledge on voter turnout. Furthermore, we find that exit poll information significantly
increases bandwagon voting; that is, voters who choose to turn out are more likely to vote
for the expected winner


1. Introduction
“A Californian plans to vote after work in what she believes to be a close presidential election. (She has little interest in
the race for congressman for her district, although it is closer.) The day is rainy and as she approaches the polling place
she sees a long line. On the radio she hears that one presidential candidate has a substantial lead in other states. She
says why bother and turns her car around and drives home.” Sudman (1986, p. 332)
In August 2009, exit poll results for key regional elections in Germany were leaked on Twitter before voting ended. These
polls showed that Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservative party had much less support than in previous elections.
Wolfgang Bosbach, deputy parliamentary head of Merkel's Christian Union bloc, said that the leaked results “damaged
democracy” and a spokesman for the pro-business Free Democrats, Merkel's preferred coalition partner, commented that
the leaks were “unacceptable.” In addition, such reporting is against the German law with a fine of up to 50,000 euros, so
German election officials immediately began to investigate whether the Twitter messages violated the law.1 The Germancase is not unusual: a survey of 66 countries worldwide finds that of the 59 that permit exit polls during an election, 41
prohibit publication of the results until after all voting has concluded (see Spangenberg, 2003).
Yet in recent 21st century elections, incidents similar to the 2009 Twitter controversy in Germany abound. In 2007, the
websites of several Swiss and Belgian newspapers crashed when French citizens attempted to access exit poll results during
an election, and in the 2012 French presidential election, results were also available online while voting was still in
progress.2 Countries with multiple time zones such as France, the United States, Canada or Russia, face particular difficulties,
as voting takes place at different times in different regions.3 The notorious reporting on Floridian exit poll results in the
2000 United States presidential election occurred while voters in the western part of the state and the rest of the nation
were still voting. In 2004 leaked US presidential exit poll results were commonly discussed among voters while east coast
voters were still going to the ballot booths.4 With the proliferation of Twitter, Facebook, and other social media worldwide,
the ability of governments to control and limit leaked exit polls both inside and outside their countries is becoming
increasingly difficult.
Beyond the increasing ability of later voters to find out results of early voting on election day, many nations are also
experimenting with “convenience voting,” in which voters can easily cast their ballots days or even weeks in advance of the
official election day. As Gronke et al. (2007) report, almost half of the democratic nations in the EPIC Project database allow
individuals to vote prior to the designated election day, with over a third allowing all voters this privilege. Convenience
voting is particularly popular in the United States where voting by mail or at the mall is commonplace; 25% of U.S. voters in
the 2006 elections used convenience voting methods (see Gronke et al., 2007).
In this paper, we make use of a unique natural experiment to consider whether the behavior of later voters is affected by
exit poll information about earlier voter choices. Specifically, we exploit a 2005 voting reform in France to estimate the
causal effect of exit poll information on turnout and bandwagon (or underdog) voting.5 Before the change in legislation,
individuals in French western overseas territories voted after the mainland election results were already known via exit
polls. Since 2005, the western overseas territories vote on the day before the mainland and hence those voters do not have
any knowledge of the choices on the mainland or the eastern territories. This reform allows us to use a difference-indifference strategy. It creates an exogenous variation in information for a well identified group of voters and provides
therefore the setting for a natural experiment to study the effect of exit poll information on voters' behavior. Such an
approach has two advantages. First, relative to existing studies on the West Coast effect, our natural experimental setting
allows us to eliminate many of the possible caveats in the analysis of the causal effect of information by providing a
counterfactual situation (same constituencies with and without exit poll information). Second, our study does not suffer
from the possible concern about the ecological validity of the results, a criticism often raised about laboratory experiments.
Using this voting reform to study the effect of exit poll information, we find evidence that the public knowledge about
such polls not only decreases turnout by about 11 percentage points, but also increases bandwagon voting. We therefore
conclude that exit polls can indeed have consequential effects on voter behavior and that the advent of social media
reporting on exit poll information may fundamentally change the democratic process in many countries where such
information was previously unavailable.
Despite the growing tendency for voters to learn exit poll results while an election is ongoing, previous observational
data-based research on the effects of such information on voting behavior is limited and inconclusive. One possible natural
setting for exploring this issue is the so-called West Coast effect in the U.S.; that is, the release of early East Coast election
returns before the polls close on the West Coast due to the fact that the presidential election takes place in three different
continental time zones. The debate over this effect emerged in the early 1960s after the introduction of sophisticated
computer models, improved survey techniques for predicting election results, and rapid access to media information. The
first set of related studies, however, which explored the 1964 presidential election, showed barely any West Coast effect (see
for example McAllister and Studlar, 1991).
A second set of major studies focused on the 1980 election,6 in which pre-election polls indicated a close election
between Reagan and Carter, but Carter conceded defeat even before the polls closed in the west.7 However, although these
researchers used a richer set of data (aggregated data on various elections, regional, data or congressional districts, or bettersurvey data), they produced mixed results. For example, Jackson (1983) finds some evidence that media coverage of exit
polls in the 1980 U.S. presidential election did lead to a reduction in turnout. However, the survey data used in his and a
number of similar studies of the 2000 election have been strongly criticized as unreliable (see the review in Mason et al.,
2001.
8
In an interesting recent study, Meredith and Malhotra (2011) examine the effects of convenience voting on vote shares in
the 2008 California presidential primary. They exploit the fact that some small precincts are forced by the state to use voteby-mail procedures for all ballots while in other precincts voters can choose when to participate. They find significant
differences in vote shares of the candidates, suggesting information effects on voter choices in precincts where vote-by-mail
was optional. In particular, they find that in precincts where all voters were forced to vote-by-mail the vote shares for
candidates who had withdrawn from the election before election day were significantly higher than in precincts where
convenience voting was optional. Moreover, the vote share for Obama (the front-runner at the time of the California
election) was lower in the vote-by-mail precincts as well, suggestive of bandwagon voting.
A few laboratory studies suggest that information about early voting can have significant effects on voter behavior. These
studies indicate that later voters' choices appear to be influenced by information about early voting. More specifically, later
voters who learn the choices of earlier voters make different turnout decisions (see Battaglini et al., 2007) or vote for
different candidates (see Hung and Plott, 2001; Morton and Williams, 1999, 2001) than those made by voters with the same
induced preferences but without that information.
Our results show that as the experimental evidence suggests, later voters are indeed influenced by early voting results.
Therefore, the advent of increasing social media reports of election results through exit polls can lead to fundamental
changes in the way voters behave. Such reporting may thus have important consequences for how democracy works in
many countries. Most obviously, candidates and political parties may have incentives to manipulate the reported results in
order to seek advantages. But even if the results are accurately reported, other serious effects might occur. For example, if
later voters are less likely to participate or have a tendency to engage in bandwagon voting, then the candidates preferred by
earlier voters may be more likely to win elections. To the extent that the timing of the voter participation decision is
exogenous and depends on voter characteristics such as income, ethnicity or other factors that arguably affect voter
preferences, then voters may be unequally represented even though their votes are theoretically equal. At the same time, to
the extent that the timing of voting is endogenous, candidates and political parties will have an incentive to engage in
strategic manipulation of the factors that influence whether individuals choose to participate, much like the strategic
manipulation in the timing of presidential primaries in the United States.9 Hence, given that the election process is
fundamentally changing with social media reporting of exit poll results, the issue of whether later voters' choices are
influenced is an important empirical question for many countries in which such information has historically not been
available.10
In the next section, we review the relevant theoretical literature on information and voting behavior. Section 3 then
outlines our empirical research design and the natural experiment, Section 4 presents our results regarding the effect on
turnout, Section 5 addresses robustness concerns and Section 6 presents the results on the Bandwagon effect. We conclude
and discuss the implications of our analysis in Section 7.
2. The role of exit poll information in voting choices: theory and experimental evidence
When individuals know the results from earlier voting via leaked exit polls, voting becomes sequential in nature. In the
case of complete information about the choices before them but incomplete information about other participants’
preferences learning, the results of earlier decisions simply provide later participants with information about the likelihood
that their vote may be pivotal. It is thus straightforward to show that if voting is costly (even if the costs are minimal),
learning that one's own decision will not affect the outcome implies that a rational individual should abstain. If however, a
voter learns instead that the election is extremely close and there is a high probability of their vote being pivotal, then later
voters may actually participate at greater rates than they would if voting were simultaneous and they had less precise
information about other voters' choices.
If voters have private information about the choices before them in an election, then early voting results not only reveal
the extent to which individual choices may be pivotal but may also provide later voters with insights into the information
held by early voters about the choices. As shown by Battaglini (2005), when voting is costly the set of equilibria in sequential
private information voting games are disjoint from those in which voting is simultaneous. That is, later voters' choices will
be influenced by the results of early voting. Battaglini et al. (2007) also find support for these qualitative theoretical
predictions in laboratory elections using a three-voter game; in particular, they find significant evidence of strategic
abstention by later voters. Other results, however, are at variance with theory – they find that early voters tend to participate
more than theoretically predicted, whereas later voters abstain more, sometimes even when their votes could be pivotal.
They conclude that, as predicted, although sequential voting tends to be more informationally and economically efficient than simultaneous voting, later voters benefit at the expense of early voters, so there is a cost in terms of equity.
Nevertheless, they find no evidence of later voters ignoring their private information and engaging in bandwagon or
underdog voting.
Callander (2007) considers the comparison of simultaneous and sequential voting under asymmetric information when
voters receive utility from conforming to the majority (voting for the winner) independent of the utility they derive from
whether the winner is their own best choice. Specifically, he derives an equilibrium under sequential voting in which voters
engage in bandwagon voting (voting for the leading candidate) even though their private information may suggest that the
leading candidate is not their own best choice. He finds that such bandwagon voting may occur even when later voters'
choices are not pivotal and the outcome is already decided (because of the additional utility voters receive from the act of
voting for the winning candidate). This argument is supported by earlier work by Hung and Plott (2001), which provides
experimental evidence of conformity voting when subjects are rewarded for doing so. Presumably, if voters similarly receive
utility from voting for an underdog candidate (or are rewarded for doing so in an experiment), then later voters may also
engage in underdog voting even when they previously believed the leading candidate to be their own best choice.
Hence, both theory and the experimental evidence suggest that if the act of voting is costly, when later voters learn from
exit poll information that their decision is unlikely to be pivotal, they are more likely to abstain. If, however, they receive
utility from the act of voting for either the winner or the underdog (independent of whether the winner is their own best
choice), then such exit poll information may lead them to engage in either bandwagon or underdog voting, respectively.
Our natural experiment allows us to evaluate the extent to which exit poll information affects the turnout of later voters
and whether later voters are more likely to engage in either bandwagon or underdog voting.
3. The natural experiment: institutional background and empirical strategy
3.1. The French electoral system
France has a semi-presidential system11 through which French president is directly elected by the citizens via a tworound runoff system. In the first round a large number of candidates can participate.12 If one candidate receives more than
50% of the votes in the first round he or she is declared the winner. Such an immediate victory, however, has only happened
once since the beginning of the Fifth Republic, in 1958.13 Usually, the two candidates that receive the most votes participate
in a second round to determine the winner.
This two-round runoff system model is also used in most other elections in France with some variation. The French
parliamentary elections differ slightly in the sense that the two-round runoff elections within each constituency allow more
than two candidates to participate in the second round.14 In practice, however, although a few second rounds are disputed
by three candidates, most involve only two.
Balloting traditionally takes place on a Sunday. French electoral law prohibits exit poll publication until the close of
voting in mainland France (Bale, 2002) and bans publication, broadcasting and commenting on opinion polls for the day
before and the day of the election (Saturday and Sunday). The electoral law also stipulates that the official campaign has to
stop for these last 2 days.15
When a French presidential election is held, it is always the only contest on the ballot, which stands in contrast to, for
example, U.S. elections, in which ballots include local, congressional and senatorial posts, and even local propositions and
initiatives. The French case thus allows us to measure turnout for presidential elections only, meaning that the turnout
measured is not confounded by effects from other elections.
During the day of the election, the release of exit polls is therefore not allowed until after the closure of the last polling
booth in mainland France, on Sunday at 8:00PM CET.16 At exactly 8:00PM, TV channels release highly precise early
estimations of the final results. These are based on large exit polls and on the first results from the majority of polling
booths, which close at 6:00PM.17.

Table 1
Forecasts as presented by France's main public TV channel France 2 at 8:00PM. All numbers are in percentage points. “Pivotal candidates” refers to the first
and second candidate in the second round and the second and the third candidate in the first round.
Year Round First candidate Second candidate Third candidate Diff pivotal candidates
Forecast Result Diff Forecast Result Diff Forecast Result Diff Forecast Result Diff
1981 1 28.3 28.32 "0.02 25.2 25.85 "0.65 17.9 18 "0.1 7.3 7.85 0.55
2 51.7 51.76 "0.06 48.3 48.24 0.06 – –– 3.4 3.52 0.12
1988 1 34.4 34.1 0.30 19.5 19.94 "0.44 16.5 16.55 "0.05 3 3.39 0.39
2 53.9 54.02 "0.12 46.1 45.98 0.12 – –– 7.8 8.04 0.24
1995 1 23.4 23.3 0.1 20 20.84 "0.84 18.5 18.58 "0.08 1.5 2.26 0.76
2 52 52.64 "0.64 48 47.36 0.64 – –– 4 5.28 1.28
2002 1 20 19.88 0.121 17 16.86 0.14 16 16.18 "0.18 1 0.68 "0.32
2 82.1 82.21 "0.11 17.9 17.79 0.11 – –– 64.2 64.42 0.22
2007 1 29.6 31.18 "1.58 25.1 25.87 "0.77 18.7 18.57 0.13 6.4 7.3 0.90
2 53 53.06 "0.06 47 46.94 0.06 – –– 6 6.12 0.12
2012 1 28.4 28.63 "0.23 25.5 27.18 "1.68 20 17.9 2.1 5.5 9.28 3.78
2 51.9 51.64 0.26 48.1 48.36 "0.26 – –– 3.80 3.28 "0.52

To demonstrate the quality of these early estimates, we collected the 8:00PM CET forecasts for each candidate from the
main public channel (France 2) at every election in our sample. Table 1 lists these forecasts, together with the actual results
and the differences between the two. In the second round of the 1981 election, for example, the difference between the final
result and the 8:00PM predictions is the same for both the first candidate and the runner-up at 0.06 percentage points, with
the forecasted difference between the two candidates at 3:4% and the actual difference at 3:52%. As Table 1 clearly shows,
exit poll forecasts are extremely accurate, the final ranking is always the one predicted by the forecast and the proportion of
votes is often similar down to a few decimal points

fully fledged citizens of the French Republic and therefore participate in the French presidential election in the same way as
French citizens on the mainland.19
Before 2005, French elections were held on Sundays, meaning that they began in the most eastern parts, New Caledonia,
Wallis and Futuna, and then moved progressively across the more westerly territories as the opening time for polling booths
arrived (typically between 8:00AM and 9:00AM). As a result, the territories located to the west of the French mainland
(e.g. the Caribbean, Guiana) and in the Pacific (French Polynesia) voted partially or completely after mainland France.
Because the mainland accounts for approximately 96% of the total French population,20 in national ballots like
presidential elections, the result on the mainland almost certainly determines the overall election result. This setting is
therefore different from that of the U.S., where the number of electoral votes determined by California can empirically
decide the outcome of a close contest.
Table 1 shows that in most cases the result is fully determined once the mainland results are known. Voters in overseas
territories west of mainland France only represent around 1:5% of the French electorate. The predicted difference between
the two “pivotal candidates” (the first versus the runner-up in the second round and the second versus the third candidate
in the first round) given by exit polls is almost always above 1:5%.
To illustrate this point further, Table 2 shows the number of votes by which the runner-up was ahead of the third
candidate in mainland France in the first round and the vote edge of the first versus the second candidate in the second
round, respectively. It also gives the number of registered voters in the western OSTs and the corresponding difference
between both measures for each election in our sample. It is clear that there are only two elections in which it would have
been mathematically possible for the western OST to make a difference: the first rounds of 1995 and 2002. In 1995, the
difference is so large that changing the result would have required at least 95% of the registered voters in the west to vote for
the third candidate and the remaining 5% not to vote for the second candidate. Such a scenario seems extremely unlikely.
Moreover, in this election, both candidates were moderate conservatives, giving limited incentives for voters to change the
outcome. The case is somewhat different, however, for the first round of 2002. Here if the difference between the second
and third candidates in OST voting was approximately 33% of registered voters, then the outcome of the election would be
affected by choices made in the OST. Although such a figure still seems quite unlikely, it is at least not completely impossible
with evident consequences for voter turnout. In Section 5, therefore, we conduct robustness checks to show that our
estimates remain unchanged by this event.
As a result of this geographical distribution, before 2005 voters in the territories to the west of mainland France had
access to information about the presidential election results while voting booths were still open, while French Polynesia and
the territories off the American continent had precise information on election results by 9:00AM and 2:00PM, respectively.
Hence, most voters probably knew who would win the election before voting. In fact, in 2002, the defeated presidential
candidate Lionel Jospin resigned from his office before people in the western OST had even voted.
In 2002 the Constitutional Council suggested changing the voting order for western OST citizens' so that the balloting
would take place before the results in mainland France were made known. The Constitutional Council is the highest
constitutional authority in France and its role is to ensure that the principles of the constitution are respected by the laws. In
March 2003, the government enacted a constitutional law (2003-276) that changed the French Constitution by removing the
word “Sunday” in the article 7 of the Constitution relative to elections. This change allowed the western territories to switch
their election day to Saturday. Answering to a question in the Senate about the day of elections in western overseas
territories, the Overseas Ministry indicated that this change in constitutional law intended to remedy the fact that OST
voters had access to the mainland results and that this situation was likely to “lead to higher level of abstention and possibly
influence the sincerity of the voting choices”.
21 Following this law in 2003, it was decided to change the voting day to
Saturday in all territories to the west of the mainland: French Polynesia, St. Pierre and Miquelon, Guadeloupe, French Guiana
and Martinique. This reform became effective in 2005.
3.3. Other reforms and relevant events
Any analysis of the effect of a policy change over a given period needs to ensure that the observed changes in the variable
of interest cannot be explained by other policy changes or events happening during the same period. In our case, four
potentially relevant events happened over the period studied that warrant discussion. First, in 2002, the duration of the
presidential mandate was reduced from seven to five years, which may have affected the overall turnout at the national
level. There seems to be no reason, however, why it should affect turnout differently in the OST relative to the mainland, and
it is a priori even less likely that it would affect turnout differently in the OST to the west and east of mainland France.

Second, 2002 saw the first candidate from an OST (Guiana) participating in the first round of the presidential election,
which could have led to a higher turnout in Guiana in this specific election. We control for this concern by including a
dummy variable indicating Guiana in the first round of 2002 in the estimations (see Section 5.1).
Third, 2002 was also the first year in which a candidate from the far-right reached the second round, an unexpected
event that created a political shock in the country. As the majority of the population in the overseas territories is not
ethnically white, they are likely to be averse to this party's political objectives. We address this concern more closely in
Section 5.2; we find no empirical evidence that this event affects our conclusions.
Finally, the last decade has seen the growth of the Internet, making access to information easier. Hence, in practice, early
estimations of the election results are produced by polling companies as early as 5:00PM CET on the day of the election. In
the 1980s, the laws preventing publication of early polls were easy to uphold because the only media able to report such
early results would be punished severely for doing so. More recently, however, Belgian and Swiss newspapers have begun
posting early estimations on their websites during election day but as they are based outside of France, even though French
speaking, they are not bound to respect French electoral law. Unlike the early 2000s when access to the Internet was limited,
by the 2007 and 2012 elections, the spread of online election result information after 5:00PM had grown substantially,
leading to a debate about the usefulness of a law which could be barely enforced. We allow for different time trends in our
estimations to control for such changes over time.
3.4. Data
Our primary data set comprises French presidential election results, especially turnout for first and second election
rounds from 1981 onwards (1981, 1988, 1995, 2002, 2007, and 2012).22 Although we organize the data at the departmental
level to make group sizes as comparable as possible, the population sizes still vary from around 4000 in St. Pierre and
Miquelon to about 1.8 million in the Nord department. We treat each OST as a department in the analysis.23 There are four
OSTs in the east and five in the west, which in addition to the 96 departments on the mainland comprise a total of 105 such
departments in France. The departments we refer to as “treated” are French Polynesia, Saint Pierre and Miquelon,
Guadeloupe, French Guiana, and Martinique.24
In order to conduct robustness checks, we use similar data from French parliamentary elections, taken directly from the
French Ministry of Internal Affairs, which are also arranged at the departmental level and span a period from 1997 to 2012.
In parliamentary elections – unlike presidential elections – voters elect representatives in their local constituencies,
independent from the results of mainland voting. Although the overall outcome of the parliamentary elections is in most
cases decided on mainland France, the uncertainty about the identity of the local MP has not yet been resolved when voters
in the OST vote. Hence, if the 2005 reform has a causal effect on voting behavior in the OST to the west of mainland France,
this effect should be primarily evident in presidential elections and less so in parliamentary elections. In fact we do not find
any significant effect on turnout in parliamentary elections, which increases confidence that we actually identify the causal
parameter of interest (see Section 5).

Table 2
Vote differences between the two pivotal candidates (2nd versus 3rd in first round, 1st versus 2nd in second round) on the mainland and in the east
compared to the number of registered voters in the western OST. Numbers are in 1000 votes.
Year Round Vote edge on mainland Registered voters in western OST Difference
1981 1 2293 470 1822
2 1247 470 776
1988 1 995 556 439
2 2405 556 1849
1995 1 644 675 "30
2 1486 675 810
2002 1 254 756 "502
2 19,605 754 18,851
2007 1 2520 826 1694
2 2200 826 1374
2012 1 3232 869 2363
2 1027 870 157

3.5. Empirical strategy
To assess the impact of knowing the election outcome on voter turnout, we estimate equations of the following form:
Yst ¼ αþηtþδ1½t Z2005% þλ1½sATG% þβ1½t Z2005%1½sATG% þXstγþεst; ð1Þ
where TG indicates the treated OST (i.e. the OST to the west of mainland France) and Yst the turnout by department s in year
t. 1½(% represents the indicator function and X a vector of controls that contains time trends, second round election dummy
and OST dummies, εst is the usual error term. β, the coefficient on the interaction of the treatment group and the time
dummy, is the difference-in-difference estimator (DID) of the causal effect of interest.
The advantage of this empirical design is that all department-specific fixed-effects that might influence turnout are
canceled out; for example, different political attitudes in the different territories, differences in political knowledge and
costs of voting (distance to the next voting booth, climatic conditions etc.). We first present results from the most basic DID
where we only use the pre– and post–treatment election and only the eastern OST as a control group.25 In doing so we are
able to more explicitly control for OST specific characteristics, such as specific political attitudes towards the political
candidates and towards the mainland in general. In this most basic specification the treatment effect is estimated as a
difference-in-difference of four sample averages. Hence no parametric functional form assumptions and extrapolations are
needed. Nevertheless, later on we use all elections from 1981 to 2012 and also include the departments from the mainland
as an additional control group. In this case we control for different time trends of turnout. In the most detailed model we
allow every department to be on a different linear and quadratic time path, which is sometimes labeled as a “random trend
model” (Wooldridge, 2007, p. 315), but is essentially a difference-in-difference-in-difference model where previous periods
are used as pre-program tests. Empirically, this approach implies that we replace ηt in Eq. (1) by ηst and ηst
2. Allowing the
different departments to be on different time trends over the whole sample period is an effective tool for examining
whether the treatment effect we estimate in fact only captures different trajectories of turnout for these different
departments. As it turns out the results remain robust relative to the simple nonparametric DID-model.26
Although splitting up the French mainland into departments helps to mitigate concerns about the differing sizes of the
underlying voting populations for each observation, these differences might still be a concern in our analysis. To tackle
this concern, we apply weighted least squares to Eq. (1) using the number of registered voters in each department as
weights. To assess the reliability of our standard error estimates, we compare OLS, clustered and bootstrapped standard
error estimates.
4. Results
Fig. 2 illustrates the evolution of presidential election turnout averaged by year for all three territories – the mainland
and the western and eastern OST.27 Here, turnout trends seem to be reasonably parallel before the legislative change, and
the increase in turnout is visibly larger in the treated OST between the 2002 and 2007 elections. In 2007, however, there is a
distinct increase in turnout in all parts of France, after which, the time trends again seem to follow a parallel path. Fig. 3,
which plots the same data for each western OST individually, supports these conclusions. This graph also shows that the
results are not driven by some outliers, but confirms the consistent pattern for all western OSTs.
Table 3 displays the results from the most basic nonparametric difference-in-difference model where we compare only
the two rounds of the last election before the law change with the two rounds of the first election after (2002 and 2007). We
also exclude the departments from the mainland and use only the eastern OST as a control group. Naturally, this approach
dramatically decreases the number of observations (N¼36).28 We find a positive and significant point estimate of about 11
percentage points. This finding implies that knowing precise exit poll information decreases turnout by about 11 percentage
points.29 Weighting by the size of the population (columns (3)–(4)), as well as controlling for the round of the election does
not affect the estimated treatment effect. It seems likely that there is some within-department correlation of the error term and hence it is appropriate to allow for clustered errors. We do so whenever possible. However, when dropping the
departments from the mainland we have nine clusters which is not enough to estimate clustered standard errors. In this
case we block-bootstrap errors which has been shown to work well with a small number of clusters.
Table 4 presents the results using all six elections and all 105 departments, which makes a total of 1260 observations. We
include OST and round dummies and control for different common time trends of turnout (columns (1)–(5)) and territory-specific

Fig. 2. Average turnout by geographical area and year. The vertical line indicates the year in which the law change occurred.
Fig. 3. Average turnout in each treated OST versus the turnout in the mainland plus the eastern OSTs. The vertical line indicates the year in which the law
change occurred.
Table 3
Difference-in-difference estimates with turnout as dependent variable. Sample includes both rounds of the 2002 and 2007 elections and the eastern OST
constitute the control group, N¼36. The point estimates and significance levels are very similar when we additionally exclude the first round of 2002
because of the ‘Le Pen’ effect.
Eastern OST as control group
Baseline Weighted regression
(1) (2) (3) (4)
Treatment effect 0.11nnn 0.11nnn 0.11n 0.11nn
ð0:04Þ ð0:04Þ ð0:06Þ ð0:05Þ
Round dummy No Yes No Yes
SEs Block bootstrap Block bootstrap OLS OLS
n Significance at the 10% level.
nn Significance at the 5% level. nnn Significance at the 1% level.


Table 4
Difference-in-difference estimates with turnout as the dependent variable. Standard errors are clustered on the department level and given in brackets
below. N¼1260. Specifications (6)–(7) correspond to the random trend model, in which the territory indicator is coded as 0¼mainland, 1¼eastern OST,
2¼western OST.
Potential common time trend Territory specific time trend
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
Treatment effect 0.06nnn 0.06nnn 0.06nn 0.06nn 0.06nn 0.11nnn 0.14nnn
ð0:02Þ ð0:02Þ ð0:02Þ ð0:02Þ ð0:02Þ ð0:02Þ ð0:02Þ
OST dummy No No No Yes Yes No No
Common linear time trend No Yes No No Yes No No
Common quadratic time trend No Yes No No Yes No No
Round dummy No Yes No Yes Yes Yes Yes
Weighting No No No No No No Yes
Territory indicator No No No No No Yes Yes
Territory-specific time trend No No No No No Yes Yes
SEs OLS OLS Clustered Clustered Clustered Clustered Clustered
n Significance at the 10% level,
nn Significance at the 5% level, nnn Significance at the 1% level.


time trends (columns (6)–(7)).30 In the basic specification the point estimates are around 6 percentage points and then increase to
11 and 14 respectively when we allow for territory specific time trends (column (6)) and weighting (column (7)). Controlling for the
election round and whether a department is an OST does not affect the estimate. Columns (1) and (2) show that OLS errors are in a
similar range to clustered errors.
In Table 5 we take the analysis one step further and estimate a different linear (columns (1)–(4)) and quadratic time
(columns (2) and (4)) trend for all of the 105 departments. The coefficient of interest remains remarkably stable at around 11
percentage points in the baseline specification and again increases somewhat when we introduce weighting (columns (3)
and (4)), but is now much more precisely estimated with standard errors around two percentage points.
In summary, in all specifications, the point estimate remains stable and quite precisely estimated. We report an increase
in turnout from not knowing the election result of 11 percentage points. Moreover, concerns about different population sizes
underlying each observation do not seem to matter.31
5. Robustness checks
5.1. Placebo-estimates and the candidate from French Guiana
In order to check for robustness, we first calculate placebo estimates using 1994 as the year in which reform was
implemented (excluding post–2005 observations)32 and secondly (falsely) using the eastern OST as a treatment group (on
the full sample). We do not find any significant coefficient estimate in either case (the results are not reported here).
The first-time appearance in the first round of the 2002 election of a candidate from French Guiana might have led to an
overly increased turnout in this department. As a consequence, our estimates might be biased since Guiana is one of the
treated territories. As the 2002 election is before the 2005 reform, this bias would create a downward bias on the estimated
effect of the reform on the change in turnout. Given that we observe an increase in turnout following the reform, the
existence of a Guiana candidate in 2002 can only make our estimate conservative (meaning that the effect of exit poll
information can only be higher than the one estimated and not lower). In any case, we control for a possible bias due to this
event by including a dummy indicating Guiana in the first round of 2002. As expected, we find a positive and significant
coefficient on this dummy. Nevertheless, all results from the tables presented previously remain unchanged (and are thus
not reported here), indicating that this event has no impact on our estimates.

Table 5
Difference-in-difference estimates with turnout as dependent variable. Separate time trends for each of the 105 departments are included. Sample includes
all presidential elections between 1981 and 2012, N¼1260. The point estimates and significance levels are very similar when we additionally exclude the
first round of 2002 because of the ‘Le Pen’ effect.
Department specific time trends
Baseline Weighted regression
(1) (2) (3) (4)
Treatment effect 0.11nnn 0.09nnn 0.14nnn 0.18nnn
ð0:02Þ ð0:02Þ ð0:02Þ ð0:01Þ
OST dummy Yes Yes Yes Yes
Round dummy Yes Yes Yes Yes
Department-specific linear time trend Yes Yes Yes Yes
Department-specific quadratic time trend No Yes No Yes
SEs Clustered Clustered Clustered Clustered
n Significance at the 10% level,
nn Significance at the 5% level, nnn Significance at the 1% level.


5.2. “Le Pen elections”
In Section 3.3, we expressed concern that the anomalous result in the first round of 2002 – in which right-wing
candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen surprisingly made it into the second round – might have impacted our results. First, we argue
that this event is likely to bias our estimates downward, meaning that we are presumably estimating lower bounds of the
actual effect. This is because the closeness of the election is likely to increase turnout more in the west, which on average
has better information when voting, than in the eastern parts of France. As a result, the DID estimates tend to be smaller
than in the counterfactual case without this highly polarizing candidate. Second, we replicated the regressions from
Tables 3–5 excluding the first round of 2002. Reassuringly, in all cases the estimates are still statistically significant and, if
anything, the point estimates increase slightly.
Table 6 replicates Table 3 without the Le Pen election. The results clearly withstand the exclusion of this election, the
coefficients are however less precisely estimated which is most likely a consequence of the small sample size. Nevertheless,
the conclusions also seem to be robust using larger samples and including the mainland as a control group. Further results
can be found in Table 12 in the appendix. Taken together, these findings strongly suggest that the results reported earlier are
not biased by unusual events such as the ‘Le Pen election’.
5.3. Testing for other shocks on turnout
A threat to the validity of our difference-in-difference estimates would be a different time path for turnout in the treated
OST versus the control group in the absence of treatment. While it is reassuring to find that allowing for different linear and
quadratic turnout trajectories in every department does not impact the results, it is possible to go one step further. We use
turnout data on parliamentary elections in France to re-estimate the same difference-in-difference models as in Section 3.5.
Although these elections are national we would expect a smaller or even no treatment effect because in each department
voter chooses between different candidates who are seeking the position as their local representative. Therefore, the result
on the mainland does not influence who will represent an OST district in the national parliament.33 In that sense estimating
difference-in-difference models with data from parliamentary elections can provide an indication as to whether other
unobserved shocks that could potentially confound our estimates of affected turnout in that period, because such shocks, if
they exist, are likely to affect other elections as well.
Table 7 replicates Table 3 using the parliamentary data; that is, here only the eastern OST serve as a control group and the
sample is restricted to the election right before and right after the law change. Given that no estimated coefficients are
significantly different from zero at the 10% level and all are also much lower in absolute terms, OST-specific shocks do not
seem to be a concern. This finding assures us that we are indeed identifying the causal effect of interest and not other timevariant shocks. We again also introduce weighting but find no significant point estimates. We present additional results in
the appendix. Fig. 4 summarizes the turnout trends at these parliamentary elections by territory

Table 6
Excluding Round 1 of 2002. Difference-in-difference estimates with turnout as dependent variable. Sample includes both rounds of the 2002 and 2007
elections and the eastern OST constitute the control group, N¼27.
Eastern OST as control group
Baseline Weighted regression
(1) (2) (3) (4)
Treatment effect 0.09n 0.09n 0.14n 0.14n
ð0:05Þ ð0:05Þ ð0:07Þ ð0:07Þ
Round dummy No Yes No Yes
SEs Block Bootstrap Block Bootstrap OLS OLS
n Significance at the 10% level,
nn Significance at the 5% level, nnn Significance at the 1% level.
Table 7
Placebo difference-in-difference estimates analogous to earlier tables with parliamentary election turnout as the dependent variable. Standard errors are
given in brackets below. The sample includes parliamentary elections of 2002 and 2007 only and uses only the eastern OST as control group. N¼35.
Eastern OST as control group
Baseline Weighted regression
(1) (2) (3) (4)
Treatment effect 0.04 0.04 "0:00 "0:02
ð0:05Þ ð0:05Þ ð0:07Þ ð0:07Þ
Round dummy No Yes No Yes
SEs Block Bootstrap Block Bootstrap OLS OLS
n
Significance at the 10% level.
nnSignificance at the 5% level.
nnnSignificance at the 1% level.

Fig. 4. Average turnout by territory and year for the parliamentary elections. The vertical line indicates the year in which the law changed.

6. Estimating potential bandwagon effects
In political science, the bandwagon effect refers to the phenomenon in which people might vote for a candidate just
because he or she is likely to win the election. Bandwagon voting can be of two types: (1) individuals may receive utility
from voting for the winner such that they disregard their private information or preferences and vote for the candidate who
feel ex ante and has more support (bandwagon vote switching effect) or (2) individuals receive utility from voting for the
winner such that they are willing to turnout to vote for their most preferred candidate when he or she is expected to win
than when he or she is expected to lose (bandwagon turnout effect). In the first type of bandwagon voting, voters choose to
vote for the winner contrary to their preferences or information and in the second type, voters always choose according to
their preferences or information if they vote, but are more likely to turnout if their preferred candidate is the expected

winner.34 Although this effect attracted a lot of attention among scholars, it was quite difficult to provide empirical evidence.
An opposite effect, the “underdog” effect, where voters tend to favor the disadvantaged candidate, has also been discussed
as a possibility.35
The French natural experiment, however, provides a unique setting for examining such effects in that prior to the 2005
reform, voters in the western OST knew the winner when they went to the polls. Our identification strategy thus relies on
estimating the impact of the leading presidential candidate's vote edge, as compared to that of the runner-up on the
mainland (and in the eastern OST), on the vote difference in the western OST. To determine this impact, we estimate the
following equation:
Δst ¼ αþβΔmainland;t þγ1½t 42005% þδΔmainland;tn1½t 42005% þεst; ð2Þ
where Δmainland;t A½0; 1% is the normalized difference of votes between the candidate with the most votes and the runner–up
at time t on the mainland (and in the eastern OST) and Δs;t A½"1; 1% is the same difference in the western departments at
time t. We use only the vote difference in the western OST as the left-hand variable in this estimation since the non-treated
departments contribute to Δmainland;t. Our approach minimizes endogeneity concerns because the regressors are predetermined. 1½(% once again denotes the indicator function. Essentially, Eq. (2) estimates a pre- and post-2005 slope, in which
the parameter of interest, δ, indicates the difference between both coefficients. This approach allows us to test for a
bandwagon effect using simple t-tests on δ. If such an effect exists, we would expect δ to be significantly different from zero.
A negative δ would indicate that the results in west OSTs are less correlated with mainland results after the reform (without
exit poll information) than before the reform (with exit poll information). Thus a negative parameter indicates a bandwagon
effect, where voters in western OST tended to follow the announced mainland results before the reform. On the contrary, a
positive δ indicates an underdog effect with western OST voters voting less for the mainland favourite before the reform
than after.
Our estimates are summarized in Table 8. We estimate Eq. (2) via OLS and find a pre-treatment slope coefficient of 1.17,
which is statistically significant different from zero at the 1% level. We also find a large negative slope coefficient of "4:05
for the post-2005 period. The difference δ between both coefficients is therefore negative ("5:22) and statistically
significant at the 10% level using ordinary clustered, and bootstrapped standard error estimates (middle of Table 8) in the ttest. Both coefficients, when taken alone, are statistically different from zero, indicating that the positive relation when
voters know who will win becomes negative after the law changes.
We also estimate the same equation excluding observations where the vote edge from the mainland was larger than 20
percentage points (first round of 1988 and second round of 2002). Visual inspection of the raw data suggests that these
observations could be driving our estimates. Nevertheless, the last column of Table 8 shows that such outlier observations
are not a problem. The point estimates and standard errors increase somewhat but all estimates are still significant in all
cases. Fig. 5, which plots the fitted and raw Δtreated;st versus Δmainland;t relation separately before and after 2005, confirms this
conclusion graphically.
Overall, these results clearly suggest that election results in western OSTs were more positively correlated with the
mainland results before the reform when western OST voters could find out the winner in mainland results before voting. In
practice, the candidate ahead in mainland France was more likely to win in western OSTs before the reform (when voters
had access to information on the identity of the leader on the mainland) than after the reform (when voters no longer had
access to such information). As indicated above, there are two possibility explanations for the observed bandwagon voting;
either the information has a bandwagon vote switching effect or a bandwagon turnout effect or both. Our data does not
allow us to distinguish between the two possible explanations. Nevertheless, to our knowledge, our results provide the best
available evidence demonstrating a bandwagon effect.
7. Concluding remarks
The advent and proliferation of new electronic information sources and social media has had profound impacts on many
aspects of politics across the globe. Increasingly, individuals are able to use the web to coordinate protests against
governments and other groups, acquire secret and classified information, and to monitor exit poll results while an election is
still in process. In this paper we investigate the possible effects of the last development on political behavior. Previous research using naturally occurring elections has suffered from a number of methodological problems in identifying whether
such information can have a causal effect on voting behavior.
We take advantage of a unique natural experiment from 2005, in which French citizens from overseas territories to the
west of mainland France began for the first time to vote without knowing the choices made by mainland voters. We find
that knowing the outcome of early voting decreases turnout by about 12 percentage points in our preferred specification.
We also find empirical support for bandwagon voting in which later voters, if they participate, are more likely to vote for the
expected winner.
Our results suggest that when voters can access exit poll results during an election voting behavior is significantly
affected. These effects on voting behavior (lower participation and a bandwagon effect) provide advantages to candidates
and political parties favored by early voters, which do not exist in the absence of the information. If later voters differ from
early voters in terms of demographics and ideological preferences, then we would also expect such information to have an
effect on the types of public policies chosen by elected officials as well. Candidates and political parties, moreover, have an
incentive to manipulate the timing of voting and the type and accuracy of information revealed through exit polls. Concerns
about the effects of exit polls on elections as expressed by many government officials, candidates, and party leaders and calls
for restrictions on such information are thus strongly supported by our results.
Furthermore, our results suggest that the increasing use of convenience voting in which individuals cast ballots in
advance of election day either online, at the mall, or through the mails, may have serious repercussions on voter, candidate, and political party behavior. While many advocate such policies as a way of increasing participation and making elections
more “friendly” to voters as discussed in Gronke et al. (2007), coupled with information leakages, increasing convenience
voting can fundamentally change the nature of the election process in unanticipated ways.


Table 8
Estimating Eq. (2) with Δtreated;st as the dependent
variable. Several standard error estimates are given
for the t-test of H0: the difference in pre- and post2005 slopes is zero.
Full
sample
Excluding
outliers
Pre-2005 slope estimate 1.18nnn 7.45
ð0:29Þ ð4:71Þ
Post-2005 slope estimate "4.04n "4:04
ð2:89Þ ð3:07Þ
Difference δ "5:22 "11.49
Standard errors:
OLS (2.91)n (5.62)nn
Clustered by department (2.04)n (3.78)nn
Bootstrapped (1.23)nnn (5.76)nn
Block bootstrapped by
department
(1.73)nnn (3.31)nnn
N 60 50
n Significance for this t-test at the 10% level. nn Significance for this t-test at the 5% level. nnn Significance for this t-test at the 1% level.

Fig. 5. Plot of Δmainland versus Δtreated, separately before and after 2005 for the sample without outliers. The former exhibits a clear positive trend and the
latter a distinct negative trend, indicating that, ceteris paribus, the leading candidate on the mainland loses votes when these voters have no exit poll
information from the mainland.
